---
title: Digital Painting Assignment
date: 2025-09-18T07:08:15
lastmod: 2025-09-18T07:50:38
---

Pick a Color Scheme:
Use Photoshop to create a unified, well-considered composition with clear, consistent
use of a specific color scheme/color harmony, examples of which include:
• Complementary
• Analogous
• Triadic
• Split- Complementary
• Double Complementary
• (See Definitions above)
Use only the colors in your selected harmony, with variation in value and intensity.

Step 3 – Ideation Sketches:
Spend some time drawing ideation sketches in your sketchbook. Quickly dump many
ideas down onto the page. This is one of the most crucial steps of any creative
process. Get your ideas out quickly and don’t censor yourself. Try to come up with as
many different ideas and compositions as you can. 10 different ideation sketches is a
reasonable number to complete. You will turn in your ideation sketches next week.
You can go back later and pick out the good ones to develop further into complete
concepts.
Upload clear photographs or clear scans of your ideation sketches to the Google Drive
folder by next class. You can use the scanner in the lab or the photo copier in the hall
on the 3rd floor to scan your sketches. You can get assistance from the Foundation TS.
• Video showing scanner use: https://youtu.be/PgPONGMGBYs
• Link to Google Drive Folder to upload your ideation sketches before next class:
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1FbUl-zOqbxMQJ4L57QLKU-ytelEFrplY
• Label your files YYYYMMDD Lastname Firstname Digital Painting Ideation
Sketch 01.jpg
Step 4 – Digital Painting:
Create a PSD document sized: 11” x 14” (or 14” x 11”) at 360 dpi.
Label your file YYYYMMDD Lastname Firstname Digital Painting Project.psd
Use any style or method of creation. If you use found images they should be modified
significantly and incorporated into an original and unique composition. Digital painting
is the main method of creation for this project. While using your own photos as source
materials is both welcome and encouraged, the way you produce the imagery in the
PSD document should be through digital painting.
A Wacom tablet can be very useful for digital painting. Tablets are available for
checkout from the equipment checkout on the 3rd floor. Checkout items are first come,
first served so make your reservations early.
Link to CIA Checkout: https://cia.webcheckout.net/sso/patron#!/
Step 5 – Turn in Photoshop Document:
Upload your labeled PSD file to the Project Google Drive Folder:
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/18NIanlWS2nLC35xU3uxPrYjKeBYU0VlU
Label your file YYYYMMDD Lastname Firstname Digital Painting Project.psd
Student examples are found in the lecture video.
Rubric:
• Strict use of color harmony – 50%
• Craftsmanship and composition – 30%
• Instructions – 10% (including naming your project co
